# Socioeconomic Impact, Business Objectives, and Gap Analysis  

## Socioeconomic Impact  

People of all social and economical backgrounds and characteristics will be able to fully utilize the MIMS software to find their missing friends and loved ones. MIMS will also change the beliefs and attitudes towards the process on how to recover a missing person, allowing for the concerned personnel to feel more comfortable that their missing are in good hands.  

## Business Objectives  

The business objectives of the MIMS application are to provide a platform that can contribute to the ongoing process of reporting and locating missing people. The purpose is to provide a platform that can allow law enforcement and the concerned public to interact and engage in the process of tracking down people who were reported as missing. The application needs to also provide law enforcement with a way to easily manage and analyze data at a quick glance through the use of tables and charts.   


## Gap Analysis  

The current process of locating missing people does not involve the active use of the knowledge of the concerned public in a useful way. Law enforcement is often tasked with finding missing people with limited resources and without an easy way to use the concerned public's knowledge about where a missing person might be or have been. With the use of MIMS, law enforcement and the concerned public can have a platform to view missing people, provide comments about different cases, and interact more proactively when trying to locate missing people. The platform will also aim to provide the friends and family of to feel more involved in the process and more comforted in their time of trouble.
