# 2.4 Best Standards and Practices #

## CakePHP Basics ##

We are using CakePHP version 3.x, which is significantly different
from the 2.x version of CakePHP.  As such, please make sure when
browsing online help that you are looking at help for CakePHP version
3.

## CakePHP File Structure ##

### Model ###

The `Model` directory contains three subdirectories which make up the
model.

1. `Table`
2. `Entity`
3. `Behavior`

Model files use the `.php` extension.

#### Table ####

Table objects provide access to the collection of entities stored in a
specific table.  This is similar to the standard Model in MVC.

The table file name is the plural controller name followed by "Table"
(e.g. `UsersTable.php`).

#### Entity ####

Entities represent individual rows or domain objects in the app.

The entity file name is the singular controller name
(e.g. `User.php`).

#### Behavior ####

Behaviors are used for packaging behaviors that are common across many
models.

### Template (View) ###

The template (view) files use the `.ctp` file extension.

The view files go in "Template/PLURAL CONTROLLER NAME"
(e.g. `Template/Users`).

Views must have a function in the controller in order to be rendered.

### Controller ###

The controllers use the "php" file extension.

The `AppController.php` file comes with the install of cakePHP.

The Controller is plural (e.g. `UsersController.php`).

## Git Basic Commands ##

### Clone a repo ###

```
git clone <repo name> [destination]
```

For example:
```
git clone https://github.com/csi4999-mims/documentation.git
```

### Get the latest from the repo ###

```
git pull
```

### Check for unstaged changes ###

```
git status
```

### Stage changes ###

```
git add -A
```
OR
```
git add
```

### Commit changes ###

```
git commit -m "my commit message"
```

### Push changes ###

```
git push
```
