#Preliminary Design  
  
Our preliminary design based off the documentation we received the first
day of class is as follows:

We plan to design a mobile application that can be used by Law
Enforcement and the Public as it relates to missing person cases. The
application will have a variety of interfaces that are specific for the
user type. Law Enforcement will have an interface that gives them access
to all the information contained in a missing person report and it will
be displayed in a meaningful way. This will allow Law Enforcement to
more quickly analyze large amounts of data and help to improve the
searching process for locating a missing person. The interface for the
concerned public will allow people to see details about current missing
people\--photos, name, description, last known location, contact
information for tips. The application should also allow someone to
report information to Law Enforcement about a suspected missing person.

The application will be designed with the user experience in mind and
will have a clean organized layout. The Law Enforcement interface should
organize data so that it is easy for someone to read and analyze\--a
table format like in excel is what we are aiming for. The pages should
be linked a logically flow so that it is easy for the user to navigate
throughout the application. The public facing interface will be a simple
scrolling page that displays the information about missing people,
similar to what is seen in newspapers. There will also be a form for
people to complete is they need to report a person missing.

Everyone Pages

-   Login\--textboxes, submit button

-   Register\--textboxes, submit button

-   Home\--dashboard style landing page

-   Account Info\--fields to display account in

Law Enforcement Pages

-   Missing Person Info\--image, table to display information

Public Facing Pages

-   Report Missing Person\--image, fields to display basic info, button
    > to get local police info
